# 变量和基本类型

## 基本内置类型

| Type        | Meaning                           | Minimun Size          |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| bool        | boolean                           | NA                    |
| char        | character                         | 8 bits                |
| wchar_t     | wide character                    | 16 bits               |
| char16_t    | Unicode character                 | 16 bits               |
| char32_t    | Unicode character                 | 32 bits               |
| short       | short integer                     | 16 bits               |
| int         | integer                           | 16 bits               |
| long        | long integer                      | 32 bits               |
| long long   | long integer                      | 64 bits               |
| float       | simple-precision floating-point   | 6 significant digits  |
| double      | double-precision floating-point   | 10 significant digits |
| long double | extended-precision floating-point | 10 significant digits |

`char`可以存放机器基本字符集中任意字符对应的数字值。

`wchar_t`,`char16_t`,`char32_t`用于扩展字符集。

Typically,`float` is 32 bits. `double` is 64 bits. `long double` is 96 or 128 bits.

## Signed and Unsigned

Except for `bool` and the extended character types, the integral types may be signed or unsigned.

`char` is special. it has three distenct types: `char`,`signed char`,`unsigned char`. But it only have two presentations: signed and unsigned. `char` use one of these representations.Which of these to use depends on compiler.

## Type Conversions

- When we assign one of the non`bool` arithmetic types to a `bool` object, the result is false if the value is 0 and true otherwise.
- When we assign a `bool` to one of the other arithmetic types, the resulting value is 1 if the bool is true and 0 if the bool is false.
- When we assign a floating-point value to an object of integral type, the value is truncated. The value that is stored is the part before the decimal point.
- When we assign an integral value to an object of floating-point type, the fractional part is zero. Precision may be lost if the integer has more bits than the floating-point object can accommodate.
- If we assign an out-of-range value to an object of unsigned type, the result is the remainder of the value modulo the number of values the target type can hold.
- If we assign an out-of-range value to an object of signed type, the result is **undefined**.

### Expressions Involving Unsigned Types

if we use both `unsigned` and `int` values in an arithmetic expression, the `int` value ordinarily is converted to `unsigned`.

## 字面量常量