- # Types and Structs
	- ## Type
		- **C++ Fundamental types**
			- `int`, `char``, float``, double`, `bool`
			- `std::string`
		- C++ is a _**statically typed**_ language
			- **statically typed**: Everything with a name is given a type before runtime.
				- It helps us to prevent errors before code runs.
		- **overloading**: Define two functions with the same name but different types.
		- `auto`
			- You can use type deductions with `auto`.
			- It doesn't mean that the variable doesn't have a type.
	- ## struct
		- `struct`: a group of named variables each with their own type. A way to bundle different types together.
			- you can use `struct` to pass and return group of information.
		- initialize `struct`
			- ```c++
			  Student s;
			   s.name = "Frankie";
			   s.state = "MN";
			   s.age = 21;
			   //is the same as ...
			  Student s = {"Frankie"
			  , "MN"
			  , 21};
			  ```
		- `std::pair`:  An STL built-in struct with two fields of any type.
			- It's a _template_: specify the types inside <> for each pair you make.
			- The field in `std::pair` are named `first` and `second`.
			- you can use `std::pair` to return status and result.
			- To avoid specifying types, use `std::make_pair(first, second)`
- # stream
	- `stream`: an abstraction for input/output. Streams convert between _data_ and the _string_ representation of data.
	- ## Output Streams
		- Have type `std::ostream`
		- It can only _send_ data using the `<<` operator
			- It converts any type into string and _sends_ it to the stream.
		- `std::cout` is an output stream that goes to the console.
			- It's an _global constant object_ that you get from `#include <iostream>`
	- ## Output File Streams
		- Have type `std::ofstream`
		- Only _send_ data using the `<<` operator
			- Converts data of any type into string and _sends_ it to the **file stream**.
		- Must initialize your own `ofstream` object linked to your file.
			- ```C++
			  std::ofstream out("out.txt");
			  // out is an ofstream that outputs to out.txt
			  out << 5 << std::endl;
			  ```
			- To use any other output streams, you must first initialize it.
	- ## Input Streams
		- Have type `std::istream`
		- Can only _receive_ strings using the `>>` operator
			- _Receives_ a string from the stream and convert it to data.
		- ### `std::cin`
			- `std::cin` is the input stream that gets input from the console. It's a _global constant object_ that you get from `#include <iostream>`.
			- **Nitty Gritty Details**: `std::cin`:
				- First call to `std::cin >>` creates command line prompt that allows the user to type until they hit enter.
				- Each `>>` **Only** read until the next _whitespace_
					- Whitespace = tab, space, newline
				- Everything after the first whitespace gets saved and used the next time `std::cin >>` is called. The place its saved is called a **buffer**.
				- If there is nothing wating in the buffer, `std::cin >>` creates a new command line prompt.
				- Whitespace is eaten.
			- **When things go wrong**
				- Once an error is detected, the input stream's fail bit is set, and it will no longer accept input.
					- ```c++
					  string a; double b;
					  cin >> a >> b; // input is "blah blah"
					  cout << a << " " << b; // blah 0
					  ```
				- Read things until it's not required type.
					- ```C++
					  int a; double b;
					  cin >> a >> b; // input is 2.17
					  cout << a << " " << b; // 2 0.17
					  ```
				- **`std::cin` is dangerous to use on its own.**
		- ### `std::getline`
			- **Usage**
				- `std::getline(istream& stream, string &line)`
				- ```C++
				  std::string line;
				  std::getline(cin, line);
				  std::cout << line << std::endl;
				  ```
					- #+BEGIN_WARNING
					  Don't mix `>>` with `getline`!
					  - `>>` reads up to the next white space character and does not go past that white space character.
					  - `getline` reads up to next delimiter, and does go past that delimiter.
					  - Don't mix the two or bad things will happen!
					  #+END_WARNING
	- ## Input File streams
		- Have type `std::ifstream`
		- Only receives strings using the `>>` operator.
			- Receives strings from a file and converts it to data of any type.
		- Must initialize your own `ifstream` object linked to your file.
	- ## Stringstreams
		- Input stream: `std::istringstream` give any data type to the `istringstream`, it'll store it as a string!
		- Output stream: `std::ostringstream` make an `ostringstream` out of a string, read from it word/type by word/type.
	-
-